manifesto.md, before:


# The DigitalGaia manifesto

The following are some fundamental tenets guiding how the DigitalGaia collective operates:

- we write free software, copyright is DigitalGaia

- libre association of projects

  no one is required to work on anything on particular, if people want to team up together they are free to do it though, and can rescind that collaboration whenever

  people choose to do what they want to do with their time (except for some needed coordination stuff)

  the idea is that there is more symbiosis when a working structure emerges by itself rather than  being imposed by a central authority, where each participant use their skillset as they most see fit

- we strive for quality in code, not deadlines. Documentation is encouraged and appreciated, especially when kept up-to-date, tests are part of the specs/doc and should be readable.

- we need to be antifragile

  -> decisions are collective, 1 human 1 vote (unless we find something better)

- security needs to be enforced all the time, we want to have proper access to resources. Nothing shared all or public by default. Take care of access with (potentially old) SSH keys on servers.

```{note}
check also: [Bevy's "manifesto"](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#what-were-trying-to-build)
```

Commit message:

Add some notes and links

manifesto.md, after:


# The DigitalGaia manifesto

The following are some fundamental tenets guiding how the DigitalGaia collective operates:

- we write free software, copyright is DigitalGaia

- libre association of projects

  no one is required to work on anything on particular, if people want to team up together they are free to do it though, and can rescind that collaboration whenever

  people choose to do what they want to do with their time (except for some needed coordination stuff)

  the idea is that there is more symbiosis when a working structure emerges by itself rather than  being imposed by a central authority, where each participant use their skillset as they most see fit

- we strive for quality in code, not deadlines. Documentation is encouraged and appreciated, especially when kept up-to-date, tests are part of the specs/doc and should be readable.

- we need to be antifragile

  -> decisions are collective, 1 human 1 vote (unless we find something better)

- security needs to be enforced all the time, we want to have proper access to resources. Nothing shared all or public by default. Take care of access with (potentially old) SSH keys on servers.

```{note}
check also: [Bevy's "manifesto"](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#what-were-trying-to-build)

and: [A Cypherpunk's Manifesto](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/cypherpunk-manifesto/) (by Eric Hughes)
more [cypherpunk links](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18690492)
```
