tools.md, before:

# Tools

## Modern command-line tools

[A list of new(ish) command line tools](https://jvns.ca/blog/2022/04/12/a-list-of-new-ish--command-line-tools/)

[CLI: improved](https://remysharp.com/2018/08/23/cli-improved)

List of [terminal tools](https://terminaltrove.com/)

[Tailspin](https://github.com/bensadeh/tailspin): a log file highlighter [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38109646)]

[Broot](https://dystroy.org/broot/) – A new way to see and navigate directory trees [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21998638)]

[lnav](https://lnav.org/):  An advanced log file viewer for the small-scale

[hyperfine](https://github.com/sharkdp/hyperfine/) - A command-line benchmarking tool.

[How FZF and ripgrep improved my workflow](https://medium.com/@sidneyliebrand/how-fzf-and-ripgrep-improved-my-workflow-61c7ca212861) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20360204)]

[z.lua](https://github.com/skywind3000/z.lua): fast & smart "cd": [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19077891)]

[Query the Unicode database from the commandline, with good support for emojis](https://github.com/arp242/uni)

## Task runners

[Just](https://just.systems/) [[github](https://github.com/casey/just)]

[Invoke](https://www.pyinvoke.org/)

[DoIt](https://pydoit.org/


## Compression

A very detailed description of the Zstd format: [Zstandard Worked
Example](https://nigeltao.github.io/blog/2022/zstandard-part-1-concepts.html)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31411714)\]

## File sharing

syncthing

tresorit

[Bitwarden Send](https://bitwarden.com/products/send/)


## Password managers

[Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/)

Unofficial Bitwarden compatible server written in Rust:
[VaultWarden](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden)

see [discussion about password
managers](https://www.reddit.com/r/crypto/comments/nt7g1u/password_managers/),
[turning off auto-fill for pw
managers](https://reddit.com/r/netsec/comments/ommw21/you_should_turn_off_autofill_in_your_password/)

## crypto and secrets

[Alternatives to
PGP](https://www.cryptologie.net/article/502/alternatives-to-pgp/)
(2020)
\[[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/crypto/comments/ggvl2h/alternatives_to_pgp/)\]

[Generating More Secure GPG Keys: A Step-by-Step
Guide](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2013/11/24/secure-gpg-keys-guide/)

<http://blog.martin-graesslin.com/blog/2013/09/generating-a-private-key-i-can-trust/>
<https://alexcabal.com/creating-the-perfect-gpg-keypair/>

# Programming

## Build systems

[Build systems a la carte: theory and practice](https://simon.peytonjones.org/build-systems-a-la-carte-theory-and-practice/)

[waf](https://waf.io/), the meta build system

[meson](https://mesonbuild.com/), the new kid on the block, clean and
efficient

[buck2](https://buck2.build/), a large scale, fast, reliable, and extensible build tool

## Editors

[VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), open-source binary of VSCode [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31604932)]

[Helix](https://helix-editor.com/), a modern terminal editor ([some thoughts on it](https://phaazon.net/blog/more-hindsight-vim-helix-kakoune))

[Lapce](https://lapce.dev/) - Lightning-fast and Powerful Code Editor

[AstroNvim](https://github.com/AstroNvim/AstroNvim) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35105657)] - AstroNvim is an aesthetic and feature-rich neovim config that is extensible and easy to use with a great set of plugins

## Debugging

[What a good debugger can do](https://werat.dev/blog/what-a-good-debugger-can-do/) [[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/11nmccf/what_a_good_debugger_can_do/)]

## Git

[Modern Git Commands and Features You Should Be Using](https://martinheinz.dev/blog/109) [[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1bafh54/modern_git_commands_and_features_you_should_be/)]

[Gitbutler](https://gitbutler.com/)

[Git Tips 2: New Stuff in Git](https://blog.gitbutler.com/git-tips-2-new-stuff-in-git/) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39356042)]

[Popular git config options](https://jvns.ca/blog/2024/02/16/popular-git-config-options/) [[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1atowsj/popular_git_config_options/)]

[Sublime Merge](https://www.sublimemerge.com/)

not specifically git, but a smart diff tool (can be used with git): [Difftastic](https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/)

## Misc

[cargo-watch](https://github.com/watchexec/cargo-watch), run commands when files change (also see: watchexec, bacon)

# Sysadmin

[Cockpit Project](https://cockpit-project.org/)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31439811)\]

[Interactive, file-level Time Machine-like tool for
ZFS](https://github.com/kimono-koans/httm)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31184404)\]

[ZFS for Dummies](https://ikrima.dev/dev-notes/homelab/zfs-for-dummies/)[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37387392)]

[OpenSSH configuration
directives](https://infosec.mozilla.org/guidelines/openssh) from Mozilla

[lnav: An advanced log file viewer for the small-scale](https://lnav.org/)


## HTTP / Nginx

[Nginx Cheatsheet](https://vishnu.hashnode.dev/nginx-cheatsheet)
\[[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/mt8mrn/nginx_cheatsheet/)\]

Mozilla [SSL Configuration Generator](https://ssl-config.mozilla.org/)

[Common Nginx misconfigurations that leave your web server open to
attack](https://blog.detectify.com/2020/11/10/common-nginx-misconfigurations/)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26259955)\]

[Gixy](https://github.com/yandex/gixy): Nginx configuration static analyzer


## System hardening

[Linux Hardening
Guide](https://madaidans-insecurities.github.io/guides/linux-hardening.html)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25590079)\] (2022)

Debian: [hardening guide](https://wiki.debian.org/Hardening) and [what
not to do](https://wiki.debian.org/DontBreakDebian) to break the
security/stability of a debian system

Commit message:

Add some command-line tools

tools.md, after:

# Tools

## Modern command-line tools

```{note}
Most of the HN or Reddit comments in the following sections usually also have recommendations for other tools, they are worth checking out.
```

[A collection of modern/faster/saner alternatives to common unix commands](https://github.com/johnalanwoods/maintained-modern-unix)

[A list of new(ish) command line tools](https://jvns.ca/blog/2022/04/12/a-list-of-new-ish--command-line-tools/)

[CLI: improved](https://remysharp.com/2018/08/23/cli-improved)

List of [terminal tools](https://terminaltrove.com/)

[Tailspin](https://github.com/bensadeh/tailspin): a log file highlighter [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38109646)]

[Broot](https://dystroy.org/broot/) – A new way to see and navigate directory trees [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21998638)]

[Eza](https://github.com/eza-community/eza): A modern, maintained replacement for ls [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41031112)]

[lnav](https://lnav.org/):  An advanced log file viewer for the small-scale

[hyperfine](https://github.com/sharkdp/hyperfine/) - A command-line benchmarking tool.

[How FZF and ripgrep improved my workflow](https://medium.com/@sidneyliebrand/how-fzf-and-ripgrep-improved-my-workflow-61c7ca212861) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20360204)]

[z.lua](https://github.com/skywind3000/z.lua): fast & smart "cd": [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19077891)]

[Query the Unicode database from the commandline, with good support for emojis](https://github.com/arp242/uni)

[Advanced Terminal Tips and Tricks](https://www.bitsand.cloud/posts/terminal-tips/) [[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1e7qaat/advanced_terminal_tips_and_tricks/)]

## Task runners

[Just](https://just.systems/) [[github](https://github.com/casey/just)]

[Invoke](https://www.pyinvoke.org/)

[DoIt](https://pydoit.org/


## Compression

A very detailed description of the Zstd format: [Zstandard Worked
Example](https://nigeltao.github.io/blog/2022/zstandard-part-1-concepts.html)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31411714)\]

## File sharing

syncthing

tresorit

[Bitwarden Send](https://bitwarden.com/products/send/)


## Password managers

[Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/)

Unofficial Bitwarden compatible server written in Rust:
[VaultWarden](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden)

see [discussion about password
managers](https://www.reddit.com/r/crypto/comments/nt7g1u/password_managers/),
[turning off auto-fill for pw
managers](https://reddit.com/r/netsec/comments/ommw21/you_should_turn_off_autofill_in_your_password/)

## crypto and secrets

[Alternatives to
PGP](https://www.cryptologie.net/article/502/alternatives-to-pgp/)
(2020)
\[[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/crypto/comments/ggvl2h/alternatives_to_pgp/)\]

[Generating More Secure GPG Keys: A Step-by-Step
Guide](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2013/11/24/secure-gpg-keys-guide/)

<http://blog.martin-graesslin.com/blog/2013/09/generating-a-private-key-i-can-trust/>
<https://alexcabal.com/creating-the-perfect-gpg-keypair/>

# Programming

## Build systems

[Build systems a la carte: theory and practice](https://simon.peytonjones.org/build-systems-a-la-carte-theory-and-practice/)

[waf](https://waf.io/), the meta build system

[meson](https://mesonbuild.com/), the new kid on the block, clean and
efficient

[buck2](https://buck2.build/), a large scale, fast, reliable, and extensible build tool

## Editors

[VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), open-source binary of VSCode [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31604932)]

[Helix](https://helix-editor.com/), a modern terminal editor ([some thoughts on it](https://phaazon.net/blog/more-hindsight-vim-helix-kakoune))

[Lapce](https://lapce.dev/) - Lightning-fast and Powerful Code Editor

[AstroNvim](https://github.com/AstroNvim/AstroNvim) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35105657)] - AstroNvim is an aesthetic and feature-rich neovim config that is extensible and easy to use with a great set of plugins

## Debugging

[What a good debugger can do](https://werat.dev/blog/what-a-good-debugger-can-do/) [[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/11nmccf/what_a_good_debugger_can_do/)]

## Git

[Modern Git Commands and Features You Should Be Using](https://martinheinz.dev/blog/109) [[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1bafh54/modern_git_commands_and_features_you_should_be/)]

[Gitbutler](https://gitbutler.com/)

[Git Tips 2: New Stuff in Git](https://blog.gitbutler.com/git-tips-2-new-stuff-in-git/) [[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39356042)]

[Popular git config options](https://jvns.ca/blog/2024/02/16/popular-git-config-options/) [[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1atowsj/popular_git_config_options/)]

[Sublime Merge](https://www.sublimemerge.com/)

not specifically git, but a smart diff tool (can be used with git): [Difftastic](https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/)

## Misc

[cargo-watch](https://github.com/watchexec/cargo-watch), run commands when files change (also see: watchexec, bacon)

# Sysadmin

[Cockpit Project](https://cockpit-project.org/)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31439811)\]

[Interactive, file-level Time Machine-like tool for
ZFS](https://github.com/kimono-koans/httm)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31184404)\]

[ZFS for Dummies](https://ikrima.dev/dev-notes/homelab/zfs-for-dummies/)[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37387392)]

[OpenSSH configuration
directives](https://infosec.mozilla.org/guidelines/openssh) from Mozilla

[lnav: An advanced log file viewer for the small-scale](https://lnav.org/)


## HTTP / Nginx

[Nginx Cheatsheet](https://vishnu.hashnode.dev/nginx-cheatsheet)
\[[reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/mt8mrn/nginx_cheatsheet/)\]

Mozilla [SSL Configuration Generator](https://ssl-config.mozilla.org/)

[Common Nginx misconfigurations that leave your web server open to
attack](https://blog.detectify.com/2020/11/10/common-nginx-misconfigurations/)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26259955)\]

[Gixy](https://github.com/yandex/gixy): Nginx configuration static analyzer


## System hardening

[Linux Hardening
Guide](https://madaidans-insecurities.github.io/guides/linux-hardening.html)
\[[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25590079)\] (2022)

Debian: [hardening guide](https://wiki.debian.org/Hardening) and [what
not to do](https://wiki.debian.org/DontBreakDebian) to break the
security/stability of a debian system
